pygame.sprite
pygame module with basic game object classes

pygame.sprite.Sprite
Simple base class for visible game objects.

pygame.sprite.WeakSprite
A subclass of Sprite that references its Groups weakly. This means that any group this belongs to that is not referenced anywhere else is garbage collected automatically.

pygame.sprite.DirtySprite
A subclass of Sprite with more attributes and features.

pygame.sprite.Group
A container class to hold and manage multiple Sprite objects.

pygame.sprite.WeakDirtySprite
A subclass of WeakSprite and DirtySprite that combines the benefits of both classes.

pygame.sprite.RenderPlain
Same as pygame.sprite.Group

pygame.sprite.RenderClear
Same as pygame.sprite.Group

pygame.sprite.RenderUpdates
Group sub-class that tracks dirty updates.

pygame.sprite.OrderedUpdates
RenderUpdates sub-class that draws Sprites in order of addition.

pygame.sprite.LayeredUpdates
LayeredUpdates is a sprite group that handles layers and draws like OrderedUpdates.

pygame.sprite.LayeredDirty
LayeredDirty group is for DirtySprite objects. Subclasses LayeredUpdates.

pygame.sprite.GroupSingle
Group container that holds a single sprite.

pygame.sprite.spritecollide
Find sprites in a group that intersect another sprite.

pygame.sprite.collide_rect
Collision detection between two sprites, using rects.

pygame.sprite.collide_rect_ratio
Collision detection between two sprites, using rects scaled to a ratio.

pygame.sprite.collide_circle
Collision detection between two sprites, using circles.

pygame.sprite.collide_circle_ratio
Collision detection between two sprites, using circles scaled to a ratio.

pygame.sprite.collide_mask
Collision detection between two sprites, using masks.

pygame.sprite.groupcollide
Find all sprites that collide between two groups.

pygame.sprite.spritecollideany

Simple test if a sprite intersects anything in a group.
This module contains several simple classes to be used within games. There is the main Sprite class and several Group classes that contain Sprites. The use of these classes is entirely optional when using pygame. The classes are fairly lightweight and only provide a starting place for the code that is common to most games.

The Sprite class is intended to be used as a base class for the different types of objects in the game. There is also a base Group class that simply stores sprites. A game could create new types of Group classes that operate on specially customized Sprite instances they contain.

The basic Group class can draw the Sprites it contains to a Surface. The Group.draw() method requires that each Sprite have a Surface.image attribute and a Surface.rect. The Group.clear() method requires these same attributes, and can be used to erase all the Sprites with background. There are also more advanced Groups: pygame.sprite.RenderUpdates() and pygame.sprite.OrderedUpdates().

Lastly, this module contains several collision functions. These help find sprites inside multiple groups that have intersecting bounding rectangles. To find the collisions, the Sprites are required to have a Surface.rect attribute assigned.

The groups are designed for high efficiency in removing and adding Sprites to them. They also allow cheap testing to see if a Sprite already exists in a Group. A given Sprite can exist in any number of groups. A game could use some groups to control object rendering, and a completely separate set of groups to control interaction or player movement. Instead of adding type attributes or bools to a derived Sprite class, consider keeping the Sprites inside organized Groups. This will allow for easier lookup later in the game.

Sprites and Groups manage their relationships with the add() and remove() methods. These methods can accept a single or multiple targets for membership. The default initializers for these classes also takes a single or list of targets for initial membership. It is safe to repeatedly add and remove the same Sprite from a Group.

While it is possible to design sprite and group classes that don't derive from the Sprite and AbstractGroup classes below, it is strongly recommended that you extend those when you add a Sprite or Group class.

Sprites are not thread safe. So lock them yourself if using threads.

pygame.sprite.Sprite
Simple base class for visible game objects.
Sprite(*groups) -> Sprite
pygame.sprite.Sprite.update
method to control sprite behavior
pygame.sprite.Sprite.add
add the sprite to groups
pygame.sprite.Sprite.remove
remove the sprite from groups
pygame.sprite.Sprite.kill
remove the Sprite from all Groups
pygame.sprite.Sprite.alive
does the sprite belong to any groups
pygame.sprite.Sprite.groups
list of Groups that contain this Sprite
The base class for visible game objects. Derived classes will want to override the Sprite.update() and assign a Sprite.image and Sprite.rect attributes. The initializer can accept any number of Group instances to be added to.

When subclassing the Sprite, be sure to call the base initializer before adding the Sprite to Groups. For example:

class Block(pygame.sprite.Sprite):

    # Constructor. Pass in the color of the block,
    # and its x and y position
    def __init__(self, color, width, height):
       # Call the parent class (Sprite) constructor
       pygame.sprite.Sprite.__init__(self)

       # Create an image of the block, and fill it with a color.
       # This could also be an image loaded from the disk.
       self.image = pygame.Surface([width, height])
       self.image.fill(color)

       # Fetch the rectangle object that has the dimensions of the image
       # Update the position of this object by setting the values of rect.x and rect.y
       self.rect = self.image.get_rect()
update()
method to control sprite behavior
update(*args, **kwargs) -> None
The default implementation of this method does nothing; it's just a convenient "hook" that you can override. This method is called by Group.update() with whatever arguments you give it.

There is no need to use this method if not using the convenience method by the same name in the Group class.

add()
add the sprite to groups
add(*groups) -> None
Any number of Group instances can be passed as arguments. The Sprite will be added to the Groups it is not already a member of.

remove()
remove the sprite from groups
remove(*groups) -> None
Any number of Group instances can be passed as arguments. The Sprite will be removed from the Groups it is currently a member of.

kill()
remove the Sprite from all Groups
kill() -> None
The Sprite is removed from all the Groups that contain it. This won't change anything about the state of the Sprite. It is possible to continue to use the Sprite after this method has been called, including adding it to Groups.

alive()
does the sprite belong to any groups
alive() -> bool
Returns True when the Sprite belongs to one or more Groups.

groups()
list of Groups that contain this Sprite
groups() -> group_list
Return a list of all the Groups that contain this Sprite.